.TH CHARCONV 1 "14 June 1996" 
.SH NAME
charconv \- Conversion of characters between various systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcharconv\fP [-d|-m|-u] [-f \fIfrom_table\fP] [-t \fIto_table\fP]
[[-i] \fIinput_file\fP [-o] \fIoutput_file\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
CHARCONV is a program or filter that allows the transformation of
one encoding of an extended character set (e.g., ISO Latin-1) to
another. Note that the encoding of umlauts, diphthongs, or diacritics
is quite different in ISO Latin-1 (Unix, MS Windows),
MS DOS (code page 437) or Apple Macintosh. Moreover, this program
takes care of transcriptions used in TeX or HTML (hypertext markup
language). Internally, a font description similar to the TeX code
(but without math mode) is used. Tags and macros are removed from
HTML and TeX input.
.LP
Furthermore, the program allows conversion between different
end-of-line markers (Unix: LF, DOS: CRLF, Mac: CR).
.SH OPTIONS
\fBcharconv\fP [-d|-m|-u] [-f \fIfrom_table\fP] [-t \fIto_table\fP]
[[-i] \fIinput_file\fP [-o] \fIoutput_file\fP]
.LP
.IP \fB-d\fP
create MS DOS end-of-line (CRLF)
.IP \fB-m\fP
create Macintosh end-of-line (CR)
.IP \fB-u\fP
create Unix end-of-line (LF)
.IP \fB-f\fP
\fIfrom_table\fP
.IP \fB-t\fP
\fIto_table\fP
.PP
from/to character table, where from_table/to_table is one of:
.LP
.in +4m
.nf
  a - ASCII (7 bit) (*)
  c - transcription (*)
  d - DOS code page 437
  e - EBCDIC (only for ASCII <-> EBCDIC!)
  g - German LaTeX (cf. TeX) (*)
  h - HTML (hypertext) (*)
  H - HTML (keep < & >) (*)
  l - ISO Latin 1 (Unix, ANSI, MS Windows)
  L - LaTeX (cf. TeX) (*)
  m - Apple Macintosh
  r - RTF (Rich Text Format) (output only!)
  s - SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language) (*)
  S - Symbol font
  t - TeX (*)
  z - Atari ST
    (*) string code
.fi
.in -4m
.LP
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
      charconv -ft myfile.tex
         (de-texify file, using umlauts of current system)
      charconv -ft -th myfile.tex myfile.html
         (convert from TeX to HTML)
      charconv -m -fd -tm dos.txt mac_txt
         (convert from "DOS" to "Macintosh")
      cat myfile.html | charconv -fh | less -r
.fi
.SH FILES
.nf
\fI/usr/local/bin/charconv\fR  binary
\fI/usr/local/man/man1/charconv.1\fR man page
.fi
.SH BUGS
(probably)
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Note: the text is not formatted. RTF output assumes ISO Latin-1 coding,
end-of-line markers are not changed.
.SH AUTHOR
Burkhard Kirste (kirste@chemie.fu-berlin.de)
